There's another thing that we're gonna
be typing a lot [LAUGH] in JavaScript,
which is .length.
So we noticed that when we
did our query selector all,
we got something called a node list.
When we did our get elements by tag or
class name, we got HTML collections.
These are different
types of collections or
groups of different elements in the page,
and
when we have something like that with
possibly multiple elements inside of it,
we can type .length,
any idea what this is going to give us?
Yeah.
>> Sorry, it was a question about when
you looked back and you saw there is
HTML collection versus a Node List, are
they effectively the same thing or what?
>> We're gonna dig into this a little bit.
I'm gonna maybe put a small
pin in this question.
But essentially,
what we have in our document
are complex entities that represent
the elements in the page.
And JavaScript takes each
of these elements and
kind of wraps it in something that allows
us to interact with those elements.
And it has a couple of different layers
of wrapping that it surrounds these
element with.
So it has concept of element objects,
which we'll talk about, again,
later when we get into objects and
things like that.
And it has concepts of nodes
in the HTML tree essentially,
this document tree that we can work with.
So functionally,
these often end up being equivalent.
There are differences, and I'm gonna
give you a pointer later to where you
can go if you really wanna dig
into those differences and
really talking about what is a node,
what is an element, etc?
Right now I'm going to hand wavy say,
let's just think about these
as equivalent for now.
Because we can often do the same
types of things with them.
Cool, okay, so any guess what this .length
is going to do if I add it on to the end
of one of these getElementsByClassName or
query selector all?
What do we think this is gonna give us?
>> Is it the length of the variables like
the length of your name and Mark's name.
>> It might be the length of the name but
that would require us putting
a few extra things in between
the getElementsBy and then the .length.
But that is a good guess.
Guess from the chat.
>> The count of the elements
that are returned.
Yeah, so I think that what we were saying
is essentially the number of elements that
are returned, right, like if we were
to count them, one, two, three, four.
Exactly, so let's try it out.
Just gonna clear here.
So if I do
document.getElementsByClassName, and
then put in the name of
the class I want in this case,
player.length, I'm going
to get the number two.
So that is because if I take out this
.length, we notice that in the HTML we
have two elements that are both p elements
in this case with a class of player.
One for the X player and one for the O
player called p1 and p2 are their IDs.
So in this case,
this class selector selects two elements.
On a different page for
a different game, let's say,
you might have a different
number of players.
Or if you're using
a different query selector,
you might have a totally different
number of elements than you expect.
But if you want to find
out how many things are in
a collection of things in JavaScript,
often you have this
.length spell you can cast
to find out how many things are in there,
cool?
Awesome, we're gonna be seeing .length
a lot, so get friendly with it.
>> Instead of use count, why length?
>> Why length, why not count?
Remember how I said that JavaScript
was initially developed in ten days?
[LAUGH]
>> I see.
>> And also the JavaScript has vastly
exceeded the expectations that
were created around it
when it was developed.
So there are a lot of things in JavaScript
as in any programming language,
that are honestly just kind of
arbitrary choices people have made.
Sometimes they're historical accidents,
we're gonna look at at least
one of those later today.
Sometimes somebody just had
to choose a name for things.
There is a joke in programming
that folks sometimes say,
there are the two hardest problems
in computer science are cache
invalidation, which we're
not gonna talk about today.
Naming things, very hard.
And off by one errors.
[LAUGH] So
naming things is extremely difficult and
there's as many different opinions on
it as there are people in the world.
A lot of the time, the answer just
like when you ask your parents why
you had to eat your broccoli
is because I said so.
[LAUGH] Or because in this case, somebody
who implemented this feature said so.
We are gonna talk later about
how you can choose the names for
things in your own JavaScript program.
So then you get to be the decider
of what things are named.
Okay, let's continue with our
domming through the DOM here.
We said that we can get an element by
its ID with document.getElementById.
In this case, I'm looking for
the element with id p1-name.
What happens if I put
.textContent after that?
Any guesses or try it out and
find out what is this gonna return if I
do document.getElementById.textContent?
>> Your name?
>> [LAUGH] In this case,
it might be my name.
Yes, and more generally let's
find out what's going on here.
So if I do this,
document.getElementById(p1-name).textCont-
ent,
I get Anjana because that happens to be
the text inside of
the element with this ID.
So, in this case,
I have a span element with the Id p1-name,
and inside of it is my name.
And if I tried this with
a different Id like for
example p2 name I should get,
Marc, so there is a corresponding
element for the other player which
has a span with ID p2-name,
which has the text inside of it, Marc.
So text content is the spell
we can cast when we want
to know what is the text
inside of this element.
So by this point you might be
feeling like a very overwhelmed
Steve Urkel in this gif like,
this is a lot of stuff.
We've just been firehosed going
through a bunch of random things or
they're not random, but
a bunch of spells you might have to
remember to interact with the webpage.
Do I expect you to remember all of
the stuff that we just ran through?
Definitely not.
There are three letters in web development
that are the most [LAUGH] important
letters If you ask me, and they are M, D,
N, stands for Mozilla Developer Network.
This is a website that I had to hold
myself back from saying is the website
I love earlier today that is going to,
in my opinion, help just unlock so
much of not just JavaScript but
web development in general.
Whenever you can't remember,
what is it query selector or
query selector was it
getElementsBy capital I capital D,
or getElementBy lowercase i lowercase d?
Whenever you can't remember something, or
you wanna find out more details about,
wait, nodelist, what is that?
HTML collection, what is that?
How does that work?
How are they different?
Anything that you're trying
to investigate, if you go to
developer.mozilla.org, there will be
copious amounts of information about it.
So let us just check it out right now,
developer.mozilla.org.
MDN, resources for
developers by developers.
So let's say that I want to look up,
I can't remember if it's query selector or
query selector all,
I type in query cell, and
I start getting links to, okay,
there is a query selector page here for
document.query selector.
And this tells me,
this returns the first element within
the document that bla bla bla bla bla.
So this is where we can go and we're gonna
be going a lot [LAUGH] if you asked me.
And there are other websites
that have information like this.
But to my mind MDN is kind of
like a really great trusted,
comprehensive reference, for
all of the things that we might find
we need to work with as web developers.
And they also have some kind of higher
level guides about things like if we're
wondering about the DOM in general, or the
shadow DOM or other things we've heard of,
or we saw once in somebody's blog post or
whatever it is.
We saw in the inspector,
we saw HTML collection, what is that?
The search box here is just your friend.
And you can even set up a search keyword
if you'd like to just really quickly
search from your browser's URL bar.
Any time you wanna find out about
something like an HTML collection,
let's say you can find it in MDN.
So if you take away nothing else from this
course, [LAUGH] I hope you take away that
you can go to this website and look up
whatever you want about JavaScript,
about HTML, about CSS,
how they interact, all of that stuff.
So we're gonna be referring back to
this multiple times in here, and
this is why you don't have to hold
all of this information in your head.
You can always rely on your
friend MDN to help you remember.